The Diversity in Changing Environments Lab (PI: Dr. Will Petry at North Carolina State University; https://parameterizeit.github.io/) is searching for two (2) full-time research technicians to assist with our field work in Colorado from June-August 2021.

We study plant population dynamics in changing environments from the individual to landscape scales. We use the long-lived plant Valeriana edulis to study how individuals respond to changing climate across their life cycle and how these responses scale up to drive population dynamics and the landscape-scale distribution of the species. Since 2013, we have collected detailed climatic and demographic data--growth, survival, reproduction, & germination--from several thousand permanently-marked individuals near the Rocky Mountain Biological Laboratory (RMBL; ca. 8 miles north of Crested Butte, Colorado). We use these long-term census data along with experimental manipulations and climate data to understand the current patterns of population composition, to forecast the near-term trajectories of populations, and to predict how climate change will redistribute this species across the landscape. Our summer research involves intensive data collection of plant demographic variables from marked individuals in our study populations across Gunnison County, Colorado at elevations ranging from ca. 6,200-12,500 feet above sea level. Most of our work is done in the field, with a small amount of indoor lab and data management work.

Review date:
Application review will begin on 1 May 2021 and continue until the positions are filled.

Job location:
The Rocky Mountain Biological Laboratory (Crested Butte, Colorado)

Position duration:
11 weeks June-August 2021, ideally starting on or around 7 June

Work schedule:
Monday-Friday, with weekends free. Off days may be shifted on an as-needed basis if Saturday/Sunday work is required to accomodate plant phenology or to work around inclement weather in the forecast.

Compensation:
- $13-14/hour for full-time (40 hours/week) work, depending on experience
- housing and station fees at the RMBL
- reimbursement for transportation costs to/from the RMBL up to $400
Field technicians will be responsible for their own food costs and any incidental expenses incurred at the RMBL.

Essential job duties:
- Collect demographic data from permanently-tagged plants growing in remote natural populations
- Assist in tagging plants in new populations
- Maintain plant tags, plots, and data loggers
- Driving the field vehicle to access research sites, including on mountain roads that may be narrow, windy, and unpaved
- Digitize and assist with the management of field data
- Assist with the set up of a high elevation seed germination experiment

Working conditions:
Field work will require driving and hiking to remote and isolated places throughout Gunnison County. Although most field sites are near roads, several are a few miles away from the nearest road access and require strenuous hiking up steep trails while at high elevation. Measuring plants requires repeated bending, crouching, squatting, and kneeling on uneven ground. The locations of our study sites mean that access to bathroom facilities and cell phone signal may be limited for long periods of the workday. We work under a wide range of weather conditions, provided that we can do so safely. Field conditions may include temperatures ranging from 40-90ºF (4-32ºC), wind, direct sun, and precipitation. Most days the fieldwork will be conducted in pairs or small groups, though occaisional work alone may be required. We provide safety training, a first aid kit, task-specific personal protective equipment, and an emergency transponder as part of our field safety plan.

Living conditions:
The housing at the RMBL is largely made up of rustic cabins that lack ammenities you may be used to at home. Most notably, very few buildings have indoor toilets. Instead, nearby outhouses are the norm. A fully description of the housing stock is available here: https://www.rmbl.org/field-station-info/housing/assigning-housing-in-gothic/. Housing assignments are made by the RMBL.

COVID-19 safety:
Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, research team members will be expected to follow additional health and safety guidlines, including masking and physical distancing and limitations on activities that present high risks of COVID-19 infection or transmission to the RMBL community. In addition to NCSU policies, we will follow the RMBL's COVID-19 Playbook (https://www.rmbl.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/Covid19-Operations-Playbook-2021.pdf) to mitigate infection and transmission risks.

Required qualifications:
+ Bachelors degree (or degree in progress) in biology, ecology, botany, environmental science, or a related field
+ A strong motivation to do field work
+ Eligibility for employment in the United States
+ A valid drivers license
+ Willingness to drive the field vehicle on mountain roads that may be unpaved, windy, or narrow to access field sites
+ Ability to work in small teams and occasionally alone in the field
+ Ability to independently schedule tasks to efficiently meet data collection goals and priorities
+ A commitment to safety and inclusion of all team members

Desired qualification:
+ Interest in natural history
+ Curiosity to learn about plants, population dynamics, and climate change
+ Experience with data entry and organization/management
+ Experience using GPS units and GIS mapping software
+ Previous fieldwork experience
+ Wilderness first aid or first responder training

Application materials:
1. A cover letter explaining your interest in and qualifications for the position
2. the names and email addresses of 2-3 professional references who are able to comment on your motivation and qualifications for this position


[NCSU statement on diversity, equity, and equal opportunity]


Additional questions:
1. Do you have a valid drivers license?
[Yes/No]

2. What is the earliest date in June that you could arrive to the Rocky Mountain Biological Laboratory to begin work?
[mm/dd/yyyy]

3. What is the latest date in August that you could work?
[mm/dd/yyyy]

